---
title: An Introduction to Credal Sets
---

## Article

Let $\Delta X$ denote the space of
probability measures on a metric space $X$
(and using the Borel-$\sigma$-algebra).

The sets $A$ and $O$ are finite sets of
actions and observations.

We will use the notions of 
histories, destinies, policies, and environments as in IB_RL.md.
The space of policies is denoted by $\Pi$.
Also, we will use $\mu^\pi \in \Delta(A\times O)^\omega$
for the probability distribution on destinies
induced by a policy $\pi$ and an environment $\mu$.

**Lemma (metric of weak convergence)**:
Let $X$ be a compact metric space.
Then $\Delta X$ can be endowed with a metric $d$
with the following convergence property:
A sequence of probability measures
$\{\mu_n\}_{n\in\mathbb{N}}$
converges with respect to $d$ to a probability measure $\bar\mu$ 
if and only if
$\mathbb{E}_{\mu_n}[f] \to \mathbb{E}_{\bar\mu}[f]$
for all continuous functions $f:X\to\mathbb{R}$.

Henceforth we will treat $\Delta X$ as a metric space
with such a metric.

**Lemma (compactness of space of probability measures)**:
Let $X$ be a compact metric space.
Then the set $\Delta X$ is compact.

**Definition (credal set)**:
Let $X$ be a compact metric space.
A credal set is a closed convex nonempty subset
of $\Delta X$.
The set of all credal sets over $X$ is denoted by
$\Box X$.

**Definition (Hausdorff distance)**:
Let $X$ be a compact metric space,
and $\Theta_1,\Theta_2\in\Box X$ be two credal sets.
Then the Hausdorff distance for these sets is defined by
$d_H(\Theta_1,\Theta_2) := 
\max\{
\sup \{d(\theta_1,\Theta_2) | \theta_1\in\Theta_1\},
\sup \{d(\theta_2,\Theta_1) | \theta_2\in\Theta_2\}\}$,
where $d(\theta_i,\Theta_j) := 
\inf\{d(\theta_i,\theta_j) | \theta_j\in\Theta_j\}$
is the distance of a point $\theta_i$ to a nonempty set $\Theta_j$.

**Lemma (credal sets as a metric space)**:
Let $X$ be a compact metric space.
Then the Hausdorff distance $d_H$ is a metric on $\Box X$.

**Lemma (destinies as a metric space)**:
Let $h_1,h_2\in (A\times O)^\omega$ be two destinies.
We define the distance function
$d(h_1,h_2) := 2^{-t(h_1,h_2)}$, where
$t(h_1,h_2)$ is the first index where $h_1$ and $h_2$
differ.
If $h_1=h_2$, we set $d(h_1,h_2):=0$.
Then $(A\times O)^\omega$ with the metric $d$
is a metric space.
The topology induced by that metric is the
product topology.

**Lemma (destinies as a compact space)**:
The set of destinies is a compact space.

**Definition (infrakernel generated by environments)**:
Let $E$ be a nonempty set of environments.
Then $\Lambda_E:\Pi\to \Box ((A\times O)^\omega)$
is defined as the function that maps
a policy $\pi$ to the closed convex hull of
$\{\mu^\pi | \mu \in E\}$.


**Proposition 1 (infrakernel generated by environments is continuous)**:
Let $E$ be a nonempty set of environments.
Then $\Lambda_E:\Pi\to \Box ((A\times O)^\omega)$
is continuous.
The topology on $\Pi = (A\times O)^*\to\Delta A$
used for this purpose is the product topology,
based on the weak topology on $\Delta A$.




## Commentary and source material

The article roughly follows
"An Introduction to Credal Sets and Infra-Bayes Learnability"
from
https://www.lesswrong.com/s/n7qFxakSnxGuvmYAX/p/rkhaRnAc6dLzQT2sJ
until proposition 1.

There are some minor differences to the LessWrong article:
 - we do not use the TV metric, but a metric that is compatible with the weak topology.
 - credal sets have to be nonempty.
 - we use stochastic policies instead of deterministic ones, including in proposition 1.
 - we do not define infra-kernels and use the term before we know they are continuous.


